### **What data are used by quicKM?**

All raw data sets used on this site are publicly available:

- TCGA project data sets can be found at the National Cancer Institute <a href="https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/" target="_blank">Genomic Data Commons Data Portal</a>.
- METABRIC (<a href="https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27161491/" target="_blank">Pereira _et al._ Nat Commun 2016</a>) is available at <a href="https://www.cbioportal.org/study/summary?id=brca_metabric" target="_blank">cBioPortal</a>.

Each data set has been downloaded from the respective source as raw clinical XML or HTSEQ transcript count data files, compiled into data tables and then manually curated. Raw HTSEQ counts have been transformed log<sub>2</sub>(x + 1) and normalised with respect to library size and sequencing depth using the variance stabilising transformation functionality of <a href="https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/vignettes/DESeq2/inst/doc/DESeq2.html" target="_blank">DESeq2</a>.

### **What is the treatment status of patients in the clinical cohorts?**

All samples included in the curated data sets used by quicKM are from primary, untreated tumours (i.e. patients have not received neoadjuvant treatment at the time of sample collection).

### **How does quicKM work?**

The clinical and gene level expression data tables for each data set are stored together as .RData and handled simultaneously by the R script that underpins the app function. To determine the prognostic value of a particular gene or gene list, the patient clinical data is split into two groups according to the user selected quantile expression level of the proposed biomarker. Where multiple genes are input, a combined expression value is derived by calculating the geometric mean expression of input genes for each patient before dichotomisation of the patient cohort. The two resultant patient groups ("low" expressers and "high" expressers) are then compared by a Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival estimate function that computes the hazard ratio with 95% confidence intervals and the corresponding log-rank P-value.

### **How do I use quicKM?**

quicKM allows interactive filtration of clinical data in the "Clinical Data" tab of each data set; once the user is happy with the parameters selected for the clinical data and clicks "Confirm Selection" or "Update Selection" subsequently, a download button will appear that allows the selected clinical data table to be downloaded as a .csv file. User filtered clinical data is seamlessly passed to the "Survival Analysis" tab, which allows the user to interactively select the gene or genes on which to run the KM analysis. Users can also interactively modify the resultant KM plot here before clicking "Draw KM Plot" to generate a survival plot and corresponding risk table. Users can update their inputs at any time and update the data and plot generated by clicking "Update KM Plot". The gene-level expression data and survival data tables underpinning the analysis can be downloaded using the corresponding download buttons that appear in the user interface upon clicking "Draw KM Plot" for the first time. If user input is changed, the "Update KM Plot" button must be clicked in order to update both the KM plot and the underlying data tables available prior to attempting download.

### **Which gene IDs can I use?**

quicKM currently recognises 34,125 genes across three common annotation types; Ensemble ID, Entrez ID and Human Genome Organisation (HUGO) gene symbols. The input gene IDs must match the gene ID type selected in the user interface of the "Survival Analysis" tab of each data set.

### **Can I use quicKM with multiple genes?**

quicKM can combine gene lists or signatures into an integrated expression value prior to running the KM survival function, making it possible to establish prognostic indications for entire pathways or cell-type signatures; this is done seamlessly when multiple genes are input in the "Survival Analysis" tab for each data set. Individual analyses for each gene in a signature, gene set or list of candidates can be generated by inputting these sequentially into quicKM and running the KM analysis (i.e. generating one plot per gene).

### **How can I get my results?**

The raw clinical and survival data tables can be downloaded via the download buttons that appear in the user interface following the data selection process (see "How do I use quicKM?"). All plots are rendered as high-resolution .png images (600 dpi) and can also be downloaded by clicking the dynamically rendered download button in the user interface following data selection.